SQS works on a process of client sending messages to the queue and
then consumers polling for messages on the queue.
This is sort of like the lifecycle of a message in SQS. With sending
messages, the process is simple enough. The messages are just sent and the
client continues on, but polling is a different story.
What happens when there are multiple consumers polling a
single queue? What happens if a consumer polls for
messages, but then can't process them?
SQS has solutions for these scenarios,
which is what we're going to talk about here.
When a message comes into the queue,
it may or may not be visible to consumers immediately depending on the
delay seconds attribute. This delay seconds attribute will delay the
visibility of a message in the queue for a given number of seconds when
the message initially arrives in the queue.
Once the message is visible and a consumer reads it,
another attribute comes into play, the visibility timeout.
Once a message is read, it is considered in flight.
This means the message is still in the queue,
but it's not visible to consumers. Until the visibility timeout
runs its course, the message will stay in the queue and be
invisible. If the visibility timeout runs out,
then the message becomes visible to consumers again and they can then read it,
which starts the visibility timer all over again for that message.
Because of this,
a consumer should delete a message once they finish processing the message.
The visibility timeout gives consumers time to
process messages and then delete them.
Here's a diagram showing the life of a message with both
delay seconds and visibility timeout.
In this case,
the message isn't deleted and so it becomes visible again for consumers.
But in this next diagram,
the message is. deleted in time by its consumer. This is the ideal
lifecycle for a message in SQS. Both the visibility timeout and delay
seconds can have default values set on the queue,
but each message added to the queue can override those values and
provide specific delay seconds when sending a message or specific
visibility timeout seconds when consuming messages.
Another default value you can set on your queue is how long
consumers should wait when they're polling for messages.
This can be set up to 20 seconds. If any messages are available or
come available while the consumer is waiting the consumer will
immediately return with the new messages.
This is called long polling,
and it can be useful because you are charged for SQS by
each request made. Requests are either requests to read a
message or to write a message.
So by using a balance of long polling and how frequently you read messages,
you should try to strike a good balance that makes it economically feasible to
use SQS for messaging, and also, highly performant. In the next clip, we're going to create our SQS queue for sending race results.